Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish Presents International Fact-Ball.
This is a only football podcast out there on the net that makes absolutely no mention of football whatsoever,
brought to you by the QILs in association with Visitingland.com.
My name is Dan, I'm sitting here with James Andy and Anna,
and it's time for our match, which is Nigeria versus Bosnia.
And I start with Nigeria.
As the whistle, let's go.
Nigeria has the twin capital of the world.
What? What does that mean?
It's a town called Igbo Aura.
It's got a population of about 60,000, I think,
and one in six births there are twins.
-One in six. -One in six.
The European average being one in 1,000, that's a pretty hefty twin rate.
So, you know why?
They claim it's, oh, some people claim it's because of their diet,
but there's no real evidence for that, so I think it's probably genetic.
Oh, yeah, they say it's Yams, isn't it?
Nigeria is the world's largest producer of Yams,
also of Casava and Calpis.
Yeah, in fact, Yams are so popular in Nigeria
that they have on their version of Sesame Street,
which is called Sesame Square.
The Cookie Monster.
Cookie Monster has a different name, and he eats Yams.
But they also have a character, which is really nice, I think.
It's a character who has HIV.
-Oh, wow. -That is nice.
It is nice, because, I mean, it's obviously a problem,
and it's a character that educates children about the disease,
so they're not afraid of people who have it, you know.
-Well, it's really good. -Okay, I found this fact courtesy of Mark Mason,
actually, who's a friend of us.
One in six black people in the world is from Nigeria.
It's a massive country.
A population is 168 million.
-Wow. -Isn't that amazing?
-Yes, that isn't amazing. -Yeah, it's really, really massive population.
-That's very exciting. -I know.
The brawl broke out in the Nigerian parliament last year.
It was about the re-election candidacy of Good Luck, Jonathan,
and it's so great, it's in their house of representatives,
and they just start having a big punch-up.
And so, everyone, all the politicians that are getting together
and a politician tears another one's shirt, people are hitting each other.
There's a woman who just poaks this guy in the face repeatedly.
There's another politician who picks up a chair above his head,
and then does that thing where he's like, "I think I've gone too far."
So he just suspends this chair above his head really awkwardly for about five minutes.
-Wow, like WWE wrestling. -It's kind of like that.
-That sounds amazing. -He's got a really awesome name as well, hasn't he?
-I like your name, you know. -An amazing name.
His family's trade was canoe-making.
-Oh, really? -Really? -Yeah, cool.
He studied zoology at university, though, so he didn't go into the family business.
-Okay. -Just speaking of nice names,
I discovered it, and I'd never heard of this before,
but Nigeria actually have the second largest movie industry in the world,
behind Bollywood, and so this is the name that I love.
-Nollywood. -It's Nollywood.
-That's great. -Yeah, and it's massive.
They're really, really massive.
But just to quickly go down the name road very quickly,
an actor, a very famous Nigerian actor,
recently took a lot of stick for the fact that he named his kids both Hollywood
and Nollywood.
He had to release a statement in the end because he was getting so much hassle
from everyone in the media about the fact that he named his kids.
He said that there was nothing wrong with giving his bundles of joy.
The names King Praise, Michelle Victor,
Tokawar, Jessobo, Laioloa, Hollywood,
and Queen Grace, Michelle, Victoria,
Paculia, Chimera, Jessica Mera,
Ompolo, Nollywood.
It's typical of the press to fix eight on the word Nollywood or Hollywood
when there were other names like Paculia.
-Yeah, there were. -It's like eight other names in each name.
To pick on, but they didn't they didn't go for it.
Nollywood is really interesting.
Nollywood makes so much money and so many films.
They make over 2,400 films per year.
Their budgets are only 10 to 15 grand,
and the piracy levels there are such that there's 10 illegal copies to every legit copy.
So they'll pick up within the hundreds of thousands for each movie.
There are some titles.
"Tare my brachets if you can."
"Bumbum Soup" and "Mama Insurance."
I love.
-Chicken madness. -Chicken madness is great.
-What is "Bumbum Soup" about?
-I have not been able to clarify because I don't want the search term in my Google history.
I read that Nigeria had the oldest man ever to live.
And I think it's incredibly dubious because the age he supposedly lived to was 160.
-Yes, I think that might be dubious. -I don't know how it's dubious.
His name was Paaki and Paaki lived to 160.
And he realized while he was 160 that he didn't have a single photograph of himself,
he decided to call the photographer and said, "Can you come over and take a photo of me?"
And while the photographer was on his way over, Paaki died.
-No. -Yeah.
Before we got his chances.
And his grandkids wanted the photo to still happen,
so they put him on a chair and they had the photographer take a picture.
His grandkids who were presumably like 110 years old.
-Oh, yeah, good boy. -Yeah.
I'm not sure about Paaki's story. That's a very good point.
While we're on Nigeria, we should probably talk about Nigerian 4-9 email scam.
Because they're so good and creative.
We covered this a bit on QI.
Basically, hey, they're not Nigerian properly.
The people who introduced them to Nigeria were probably British scammers.
In 1914, the British ambassador to Spain warned Nigerian colonial officers
about these pan and paper letter scams saying, "By the way, there's a great fortune here.
Do you want to get in on this? If you pay me a little bit of money,
I'll give you all a huge sum."
And then we gave them the scam.
Yeah, yeah.
They took it and ran with it very enthusiastically.
I think the vessels coming in soon.
Because we're definitely nearing half-time.
Anyone got any last second facts they want to throw in?
Yes, yeah.
In the Nigerian Navy, there are 20 ships.
All of whose names mean hippopotamus in various local languages.
-Oh, wow. -That's not good.
Okay, there's the halftime whistle.
That means it's time for our halftime show.
Got you by visitingland.com.
And this comes in the form of a QI quiz.
We've got three questions for you.
Which the answers will be revealed at the end of our podcast.
Okay, so question number one, James, what do you got?
Okay, my question is, in 1348, sensing weakness,
the Scots invaded Northern England.
Why did their invasion not go according to plan?
Andy, question number two.
My question is, what line to the entire south and east coast of England
in the summer of 1976?
Anna, third question.
Which English writer made the first known reference to potato chips?
Okay, that's good.
All right, so there's the three questions.
If you want to find out the answers to those,
you better stay tuned to the end of our podcast
and we'll reveal them there.
But now it's time to go back to the match.
And it's the second half and Bosnia.
All right.
You like this, Dan? You like your national anthem?
I do, lovely. You know what the national anthem of Bosnia
and Herz governor is?
I do not know.
It is called the national anthem of Bosnia and Herz governor.
Nice, fantastic.
Do you think that has anything to do with the fact
that they're so confused about their language?
So they speak Serbian, Bosnian, and Croatian,
which are the same language.
But for political reasons, it's very controversial.
James has got a vulcan roots.
Most people acknowledge that if you speak one of them,
you can completely understand the others.
That's true.
They're like dialects of the same language.
Virtually identical.
Yep.
You can tell one from the other.
There are slightly different words, but yeah, they are.
So like on cigarette packets,
if you look at a cigarette packet in Bosnia,
you have the same warning, just three lines of it
because they've got to do it.
There's three different languages, yeah.
I've got a football fact.
I'm going to throw in.
I know we don't do football.
Yeah.
It's the fact that the questions that come up in the press conferences
when they've been going to this year's World Cup
is inevitably will your players be allowed
to be drinking and have sex?
And a number of the coaches who get asked these questions
have actually openly said, no, no sex as a sex band going on.
And I like the Bosnian coaches answer to this question.
He has put a sex band on.
He said they can find another solution.
They can even masturbate if they want.
And then there was a sense of he kind of regretted saying that out loud afterwards
because that's not a thing he's saying.
Usually the referees are wanker.
Since you did mention, this is worth mentioning, I'd still on football,
but it's not international football.
There's a goalkeeper, an amateur goalkeeper in Bosnia.
And you have to bear in mind for this,
that a ball-con tradition is like a big ceremony
like weddings and births is to fire off guns,
especially in moral areas.
So in...
Yeah, 8K-47s.
8K-47s.
Yeah, like, what a wedding. There was an amateur football game going on
on the outskirts of Sarajevo, I think it was last year.
And the keeper, Dusko Kertelitsa, suddenly it got a headache
and he assumed it was because.
He thought he'd bashed his head into the side of the goalposts.
So he played the full 90-minute match.
At the end of the match, it became apparent that he'd been shot in the head,
right, in the start of the match.
And he continued to play.
He felt a pain in his arm had to be rushed to hospital,
where they found a 9mm bullet lodged in his brain.
Oh my god.
So he would be there going, "I think I'm having a hard attack.
I've got this numbness down my arm."
No, no, no, don't worry.
It's much better.
In the bed next door, there's a guy saying,
"I think I've been shot in the head.
Are you sure you're having a hard attack?"
But this is too much football.
I'm pulling us over to another sport.
How many Macedos in Bosnia and Bullfights are killed?
Per year. None.
That's it. The answer is none.
Because there are no Macedos in Bosnia and Bullfights.
The fights aren't between bulls.
And it's not one is the Matador and has to go to the other bull.
How do they get the bulls to fight each other?
It's like a bull whisperer going, "I can't just call you a asshole."
I think there's a pitch, which is a rough area.
And then they each pull are trying to chase their opponents away.
It's just encouraging their natural instincts to be dominant, basically.
Are the bulls allowed to have sex a night before a fighter?
I have not found data.
Also, none of the bulls are killed because they just back down
when they're losing a fight badly.
So, fatalities are very rare.
Really? Yeah. That is good.
It's still bullfighting.
It's still bullfighting, but it's unusual bullfighting.
It should call it bullfighting.
Sarajevo, when I think of Sarajevo, I think of a big incident.
What's the first thing that comes to mind for you, Sarajevo?
The shooting of Archtune.
The ice skating with Toval and Dean.
The Belera, that was in Sarajevo.
Okay, right. But did you know that...
So, Archtune for an unknown, obviously, assassinated there,
but there was a previous assassination attempt on him.
Was it to do with ice skating?
Someone threw an ice skate at him.
No, someone threw a lip bomb at his car.
He saw it coming, and he battered it away with his hand.
And it exploded in the street.
Wow, and that's how volleyball was invented.
In fact, for the first 30 years, volleyball was only played with lip bombs.
That's ridiculous.
Is the guy who threw it, Cabrinovic, to avoid capture after doing that.
He saw a design eye capsule and threw himself into the river.
But at the time, the river was 10 centimeters deep.
And so, within seconds, he was pulled out by police man.
We are actually approaching the end of the match.
So, if I will quickly get in, injury time.
Okay, here's something.
Police chiefs in Bosnia have spent £70,000
buying 1,300 pairs of new shoes and boots for their officers
from an outfitters that only supplies footwear for bodies to wearing coffins.
Wow.
Yeah, and the police aren't very happy about this.
Officers complain that the shoes that were never meant to be walked in
fell apart after just a few hours on the beat.
Of course, that's lovely.
We're not.
Anyone else?
I have an extremely quick fact.
Yeah.
So, at the 1984 Winter Olympics,
it took place in Sarajevo at the opening ceremony.
They raised the Olympic flag upside down.
Oh.
I'll court it.
Yeah.
Oh, my days.
That is the other than that.
You can't believe it.
So, quick.
Put a great one.
Before we find out who won today's match,
though, we are going to quickly find out the answers
to that visitingland.com quiz that we did earlier.
And the answers and questions and the answers are, James.
Okay, in 1348, the Scots invaded Northern England,
sensing weakness because England was suffering from the plague.
The Scots arrived, caught the plague,
went back and killed half of their own population.
Oh, my God, it's an own goal.
After you hold England.
They should not have visited England.
But you should.
Andy, question number two.
My question was what lined the south and east coasts of England
in the summer of 1976?
And the answer is Ladybirds.
It's called the Ladybird Explosion of 1976.
There was just the perfect conditions for them the year before,
and then billions and billions rose out of the ground
all across the country and moved south looking for food.
And 400 miles of tideline consisted of little but solid Ladybirds.
Wow. Yeah.
That's great.
Okay, Anna, last question.
Yeah, my question was which English writer made the first known reference
to potato chips?
And it was Dickens in a tale of two cities.
He mentioned husky chips of potato fried
with some reluctant drops of oil.
Wow.
Here you go.
All right, so that's all the answers to our quiz questions.
If you got them right, congratulations.
There are no prizes.
However, if you do want a prize of some sort,
you can head over to Visitingland.com.
Where they're running a competition
where you could go into win some QI goodies,
including a book which would be personally signed to you by Andy Murray
with any dedication that you want.
Literally anything.
I will write anything.
He will write anything.
There's also hats and t-shirts and so on.
Anyway, we need to find out who won today's match.
So who do you think did best today?
I love the Nollywood stuff.
So I would say Nigeria.
Yeah, I like Nigeria as well.
All right, Nigeria, well done.
You make it through to the next round of the International Factible
Competition.
If you want to ask any of us on this podcast about the things
we were talking about, maybe just the winner,
we can be reached on our Twitter handles.
I'm on @Sriberland.
James.
@egshaped.
Andy.
@andruhunterm.
And Anna.
You can get me on @quikipedia, the QI Twitter feed.
But you can also join the #GetAnnerOnTwitter campaign,
which is picking up a lot of energy in this office.
OK, that's it for this match.
If you want to join us again tomorrow,
we're going to be doing this again
with another bout of two giants in the world of Factible.
And it is, James.
Definitely giants.
It's the USA versus Russia.
Oh.
Oh, my days.
That will be a good one.
OK, all right.
We'll see you again tomorrow for that match.
Thanks for listening, everyone.